Now let's draw our track on the map. So first. We're going to load the data frame. And I'm going to hide the sidebar. And now I'm going to use volume, create a map and then get the location. Create a marker on this location and add this marker to the map and finally show the map. Right when we run this cell now, we see a marker we can tweak around with the marker and style them for example. We can use a red circle, so I'm going to use now a circle marker instead of a regular marker and say that the color is red. And now we get a circle marker. Another nice thing you can do is add a popup. So we have the circle marker in the location in color is red, and I'm adding a OU with hider. So if I'm going to run the cell now I have the marker. But now when I'm clicking on the marker I'm going to see. My popup. There are many styles of markers in volume and the pop up can be HTML. Check out the volume documentation for more details. Now that we know how to place one marker on the map, let's draw the entire track on the map. For this I'm going to create a function that will add a marker from a row in the data frame. So I'm going to get a tuple from the latitude. And longitude create a circle marker in the location which has a radius of five red color and the OU is going to be the time. So I'm getting it from the row name which is the index and I'm going to format it as our column and add it to the mark. Check it out. Let's take one row first and see that. So I'm calling add marker on the 200 row. We're using the iloc and then showing the map. Let's run the cell and now we see the marker and we're going to click on the marker. We're going to see the time. Once we see that the code is working for a single row, we can do it for the whole data frame. So I'm going to create another map and then call apply from the data frame on end marker with axis equal 1. Meaning do it on every row. And display the map. This took a while and the markers overlap. You need less data point and to do so, we're going to resample the data. So I'm going to create a new map and then I'm going to create a data frame by using resample and I'm going to say minute frequency and take the mean of every longitude and latitude. That falls inside that minute frequency, and now I'm going to alley this add marker function, but on the minute DF again with access.
1.
This looks much nicer. This workflow is very typical with the visualization you need to do some iteration until you get a good one to get a great one, you'll need to invest more time tweaking it, but for now I think we're good.
