Let's plot how many rides we have on each day. To do this, we're going to use grouping. If you're familiar with SQL, you already know about grouping. It's span as equivalent of SQL's group by. You probably want to do something like group by the date and count from the rides and group by the date again. If you don't understand SQL, don't worry about it, but I highly recommend you learn some SQL as a data science. This is practically a required language so. First restart by uploading the data frame. Remember to run the download data or copy taxi CSV. So import pandas SPD. Define the time column, read it and then set the vendor name from the vendor ID. And let's run this and now we can look at the time. So we're going to look at the pickup time. So let's do the head and we see several times these times have our minute and 2nd component and we are only interested in the hours. Let's take a look at the timestamp. So we create a new timestamp from November 1st, 2021 and we'll look at this timestamp. And now we can use the flow method to round it up for days. Capital D stands for days, pandas has several offset aliases. You should read the documentation and to know which one to use. We are going to use. As I said the day which is calendar day frequency. Now let's try flooring up some rows, so pick up daytime, take the head, and we do a flow. And this is going to fail while the series can hold a lot of types and the floor makes sense only for time data. So how can you access the timestamp object inside this specific series? There is a dot DT attribute that you can use, so we're going to do the same. Pick the column, then go ahead and then dot D and only then floor of D. Let's run this one and this one is working for us. Now that you can generate the keys, let's group when you group, we can either specify a column to group by or group by by values which would have the same length as the data. Frame. Since you're interested in the hour, we can use the letter form, so we define the keys and. Then we group by the keys. You get a group by object. This object waits for you to tell it what to do with every group. Extract some columns, maybe calculate some statistics. In this case we'd like to count how many rides are per hour, so we're going to use count. So data frame, group by keys and then count. We are going to. Get. The counts for every day. So we see 1st of the month, 2nd of the month, 3rd of the month, and then the same number for every column. Because we're just counting. So what we're going to do is we're going to extract just one column, we're going to use the vendor ID. So we go by the keys. To the count, take only the vendor ID column and do a bar plot. And now we have a bar plot for every day in the month. How many rides we have? Let's tidy it up. So we're going to run the same group by operation, but we're going to change the index name for the day, and we're going to call it the date, and then we're going to create a bar plot with the title of Daily Access in January 2016. And we tell it, we don't want to rotate the. We get this ax object which is the Matplotlib axis, and we do set while label for the number of writes. Once we run this cell we have a much nicer task. We have a title, we have labels for the X axis and the Y axis, and we can see the day of the month just below.


