Let's calculate how slow I jog for speed. We need time and distance. We have latitude and longitude, and we're going to cheat and use Euclidian distance instead of distance on a sphere. So first we're going to load the data with read CSV. I'm going to hide the side frame. So let's have a look. One latitude in kilometers is about 92 kilometers and one longitude in kilometers is about 111. It's varies depending on where you are on earth, but it's good enough for what we're going to do. So we're going to define distance function which takes the delta latitude, the latter longitude. Multiply them. By the constants and then use Numpy to get the kleidion distance. So we're going to run this cell. There is no output, but now we have the function. Let's have a look. So let's take first longitude and latitude and the second One South. We'll take 200 and 201 and we're going to calculate the distance between them, and this is going. To. Work now we need to calculate the distance between every row. Remember we want to avoid 4 loops as much as possible. Let's use the shift method. To avoid looping, here's an example so. And creating a series of five elements. So zero to four now. If I'm going to run the shift operator, I'm going to get none is the first one, and every element is shifted downward. Shift can also work in the other direction. If I give it -1. So now I have none at the bottom and everyone is shifted up. Now we're going to use shift so we get the distance, we take the latitude and longitude. And the shifted latitude and longitude. And if you're going to run this one, we're going to get Nan again for the first value and then distances which are in kilometers. Let's do a side sheet reface, let's do a sanity check and sum all of the distances 4.7 kilometers. That seems about right. Now we'd like to calculate the difference in times. This one, we're going to use the diff. If. And if you're going to run it now, we're going to see again, not the time for the first one. And then the difference in times 17 seconds, 0 seconds. One second, etc. If you look at the stick, we can specify the length of the stick in various ways, right? We can use centimeters, millimeters, nanometers per socks and more. Same goes for time deltas. It's a span of time, and we need to convert it to a number by specifying the. So what we are going to do is time. Sorry, we're going to take times and divide it by pandas time delta saying one hour. And now we see the numbers as fractions of an hour. Finally, we can calculate the speed, so we do distance divided by times, hour and we are going to see the speed. Right. And this speed is in kilometers per hour and I'm not running 35 kilometers per hour. That's the speed of the fastest man alive. Probably this is an. In the measurement.


