Let's run our code, load the data and calculate the speed. Now we can use the describe method of the speed to get some statistics about what is the mean, standard deviation, and other values. I'd like to use boxplot for first impression of the data, so let's do that speed dot plot dot box. If you're going to run this, you're going to see a box plot. The box plot shows the distribution of data. The line in the middle is the mean. Now we have the quantiles. And the whiskers are the interquartile ranges, and all of the dots outside of the whiskers are considered outliers. These weak plots are great when exploring data, but when you present the data, you better have some nicer charts. Don't underestimate nice itself. Most of the time when I explore the data, I plot basic charts, but when it's time to present I invest some time in making them nicer. It helps the readability but also makes a better impression. There's no end to how much you can fiddle with your charts. Here are some basic things you can do to make your charts nicer, so I'm going to import. Output flip and I'm going to say that the figure size is 10 / 6. This is in inches, but will make the figure bigger and then I'm using style. Matplotlib has several styles. I like the seaborn white green and now I'm going to plot again. And now we get a slightly bigger chart. There is a difference at look and I have these lines telling me what are the values. It's easier to see with the grid. I can also set some other things. So I have a none here at the bottom. I'd like to remove it, so I'm going to say that the name is nothing and then I'm going to plot and give it a title. Nikki's run and then I'm going to set the Y label with the running speed of and then here between these dollar sign I'm writing later for showing equations. When I run this one. I get a char. It has the label nikis one the none is gone and here you see running speed and then kilometer over hours.


