Let's load our data. So we import pandas as PD. We define what are the time columns and we use the read CSV method to load the data passing the time columns and looking at the data types. And you can see that the vendor ID is an integer. Let's see how many unique values are there using the unique method of the column. And you see, we have only two values we'd like to refer them by name. You can access the metadata or the schema of the data and here we see that vendor 1 is creative and vendor 2 is verify. So. Let's create a map saying one is Creative, 2 is Verifone and now we're going to add a new column called Vendor which is applying this map on the vendor ID and we're going to look at the head to see the first few. You see very fun and creative. The vendor column is a string column. Since there are only two vendors, it seems wasteful to generate string per row. Let's see how much memory this column takes. So we define a MB and then we call the memory usage method on the column with deep equal true to calculate the strings. Divided by. You see, it takes 67 megabyte. This kind of data, when there are few possible values that repeat, is called categorical data panels has a special type for categorical data that is much more space efficient. So we are going to do dataframe vendor. DF vendor map vendors just as before, but now we're going to add as type category and then look at what we. And you see that it looks like before. Very fun and creative. But now the data type is a category. Let's see how much space the vendor column is consuming now. So right now it's a single MB versus the 67 as before. You can get the underlying data with the codes attribute. So if you're going to run this one. We're going to see now that we get the underlying ones and zeros. Note that these are different from the one and two we had in the data. These are the categories numbers, not what was in the CSV file. Categories are easy to work. For example, you can compare a category to. String. So let's check how many rows are there that the vendor is verify. And you see about half of them, there are more things you can do with categories. For example, you can order them. This is useful when you have answers from a survey and you'd like to say that very much is bigger than someone with the excellent documentation for more details and examples.


